1. which keys are used in vi editor to delete a line?
dd

2. What key is used in vi to insert and start from new line?
o

3. Which command is used to create a new user?
useradd username

4. Which command is used to modify user attributes?
usermod

5. Which command is used to run commands used by root user only?
sudo command-name

6. Which file is used to add a user to sudo configuration file?
/etc/sudoers

7. Which command(s) is used to list logged in users?
who and w

8. How to find out information about a user?
id username

9. "date" command is used for?
view and set date

10. Which of the following command is correct if you want to view only the month of January 2008?
cal 1 2008

11. What is the difference between a process and a daemon?
Process runs and ends after it is done with the task whereas daemon runs at all times and wait or listen to protocols

12. How to start a system service such as ntpd in CentOS/RHEL 7?
systemctl start ntpd

13. What does a ps -ef command shows?
List all running process

14. Why use kill command when a process can be stopped with systemctl stop process-name?
Because sometimes a process is hung and can be stopped with kill command
Because sometimes a process child becomes as a zombie process and it requires kill command to clean all remaining processes
Because sometime a process or service does not respond to regular commands such as systemctl or service

15. List commands that are used for system resource monitoring?
top,df,free,iostat

16. What is the 3 field in df -h command
Disk space usage in actual size

17. What is the difference between shutdown and halt command?
Halt brings the system down to its lowest state, but leaves it powered on. shutdown brings the system to its lowest state, and will turn off the power

18. Why it is important for a system admin to monitor logs?
Because log will have all the system messages and system admin can trace the log to find the root cause

